<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <title>Chapter_17</title>
  <link href="../Styles/syntax-highlighting.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body id="Chapter_17" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
  <div id="_idContainer090" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
    <h1 class="chapterNumber">17</h1>
    <h1 id="_idParaDest-265" class="chapterTitle">Examining Source Generators</h1>
    <p class="normal">In this chapter, we will look at writing code that generates code. Even though this chapter isn’t directly related to Blazor development, it still has a connection to Blazor, as we’ll discover.</p>
    <p class="normal">The subject of source generators is a book on its own, but I wanted to introduce this since it is used by Blazor and, honestly, is one of my favorite features.</p>
    <p class="normal">I am the kind of person that spends a day writing source code that saves me 10 minutes, if I know I will need to repeat those 10 minutes over and over again. Repetitive tasks have never been a favorite of mine.</p>
    <p class="normal">In this chapter, we will cover the following:</p>
    <ul>
      <li class="bulletList">What a source generator is</li>
      <li class="bulletList">How to get started with source generators</li>
      <li class="bulletList">Community projects</li>
    </ul>
    <p class="normal">The idea for this chapter is for you to use it as a reference so that you can implement a new project on your own.</p>
    <h1 id="_idParaDest-266" class="heading-1">Technical requirements</h1>
    <p class="normal">This chapter is a reference chapter and is not connected in any way with the book’s other chapters.</p>
    <p class="normal">You can find the source code for this chapter’s result at <a href="https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Web-Development-with-Blazor-Second-Edition/tree/main/Chapter17"><span class="url">https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Web-Development-with-Blazor-Second-Edition/tree/main/Chapter17</span></a>.</p>
    <h1 id="_idParaDest-267" class="heading-1">What a source generator is</h1>
    <p class="normal">In many cases, we find<a id="_idIndexMarker601"></a> ourselves writing the same kind of code over and over again. In the past, I have used T4 templates to generate code and even written <strong class="keyWord">stored procedures</strong> and <a id="_idIndexMarker602"></a>applications that can help me generate code. <strong class="keyWord">Source generators</strong> are part of the .NET compiler platform (Roslyn) SDK.</p>
    <p class="normal">A generator gives us access to a compilation object representing all the user code currently being compiled. From there, the object can be inspected, and we can, based on that, write additional code.</p>
    <p class="normal">Okay, this sounds complicated, and I would be lying if I said it was easy to write a source generator, but it instantly saves us a lot of time. So let’s break it down a bit.</p>
    <p class="normal">When we compile our code, the compiler does the following steps:</p>
    <ol class="numberedList" style="list-style-type: decimal;">
      <li class="numberedList" value="1">The compilation runs.</li>
      <li class="numberedList">Source generators analyze code.</li>
      <li class="numberedList">The source generators generate new code.</li>
      <li class="numberedList">The compilation continues.</li>
    </ol>
    <p class="normal">Steps 2 and 3 are what source generators do.</p>
    <p class="normal">In Blazor, source generators are used all the time; it is a source generator that takes the <code class="inlineCode">.razor</code> files and converts them to C# code.</p>
    <p class="normal">We can look at what Blazor is generating by adding the following to our <code class="inlineCode">csproj</code> file:</p>
    <pre class="programlisting code"><code class="hljs-code">&lt;EmitCompilerGeneratedFiles&gt;<span class="hljs-literal">true</span>&lt;/EmitCompilerGeneratedFiles&gt;
</code></pre>
    <p class="normal">Adding this code will emit generated files into the <code class="inlineCode">obj</code> folder for the <code class="inlineCode">razor</code> component. </p>
    <p class="normal">We can find them here: <code class="inlineCode">\obj\Debug\net7.0\generated\Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Razor.SourceGenerators\Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Razor.SourceGenerators.RazorSourceGenerator</code></p>
    <p class="normal">We can choose where to emit the files by using:</p>
    <pre class="programlisting code"><code class="hljs-code"><span class="hljs-tag">&lt;</span><span class="hljs-name">CompilerGeneratedFilesOutputPath</span><span class="hljs-tag">&gt;</span>THEPATH<span class="hljs-tag">&lt;/</span><span class="hljs-name">CompilerGeneratedFilesOutputPath</span><span class="hljs-tag">&gt;</span>
</code></pre>
    <p class="normal">You can replace <code class="inlineCode">THEPATH</code> with a path you would like to have the files emitted to.</p>
    <p class="normal">In that folder, we can find a file called <code class="inlineCode">Pages_Counter_razor.g.cs</code>, which is the C# representation of the counter component.</p>
    <p class="normal">The <code class="inlineCode">Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Razor.SourceGenerators-generator</code> is, of course, a very advanced source generator. </p>
    <p class="normal">Let’s think of a scenario: at work, we create services and interfaces for those services. The only use of this interface is for testing purposes, the same way we have built our repositories throughout the book.</p>
    <p class="normal">In this case, adding<a id="_idIndexMarker603"></a> a method to a service means we need to add the method to the class and the interface. We tried simplifying the process by putting the interface and the class in the same file. However, we still forgot about the interface, pushed the code, and didn’t notice the mistake until everything was built and a NuGet package was generated.</p>
    <p class="normal">We found a<a id="_idIndexMarker604"></a> source generator called <strong class="keyWord">InterfaceGenerator</strong>; adding an attribute to our class will generate the interface for us.</p>
    <p class="normal">Let’s take a look at this example:</p>
    <pre class="programlisting code"><code class="hljs-code"><span class="hljs-keyword">public</span> <span class="hljs-keyword">class</span> <span class="hljs-title">SampleService</span>
{
    <span class="hljs-keyword">public</span><span class="hljs-function"> </span><span class="hljs-built_in">double</span><span class="hljs-function"> </span><span class="hljs-title">Multiply</span><span class="hljs-function">(</span><span class="hljs-built_in">double</span><span class="hljs-params"> x, </span><span class="hljs-built_in">double</span><span class="hljs-params"> y</span><span class="hljs-function">)</span>
    {
        <span class="hljs-keyword">return</span> x * y;
    }
    <span class="hljs-keyword">public</span> <span class="hljs-built_in">int</span> NiceNumber =&gt; <span class="hljs-number">42</span>;
}
</code></pre>
    <p class="normal">This is a simple service class (taken from the InterfaceGenerator GitHub page). Adding an attribute to the code will automatically generate an interface, and we can add a reference to that interface:</p>
    <pre class="programlisting code"><code class="hljs-code">[<span class="hljs-meta">GenerateAutoInterface</span>]
<span class="hljs-keyword">public</span> <span class="hljs-keyword">class</span> <span class="hljs-title">SampleService</span>: <span class="hljs-title">ISampleService</span>
…
</code></pre>
    <p class="normal">The generated interface will always be up to date. This sample is an excellent example of when source code generators will save time and remove pain points.</p>
    <p class="normal">Source generators are powerful; we get access to a syntax tree that we can query. We can iterate over all classes and find the ones with a specific attribute or that implement an interface, for example, and based on that, generate code.</p>
    <p class="normal">There are<a id="_idIndexMarker605"></a> some limitations. There is no way to know in what order the source generators will run, so we can’t generate code based on generated code. We can only add code, not modify code.</p>
    <p class="normal">The following section will look at how we can build our source generators.</p>
    <h1 id="_idParaDest-268" class="heading-1">How to get started with source generators</h1>
    <p class="normal">It’s time to look at how we can <a id="_idIndexMarker606"></a>build our source code generators. The <code class="inlineCode">Chapter17</code> folder is a finished example of what we discuss here. The instructions will not be a step-by-step guide.</p>
    <p class="normal">To create a source code generator, we need a class library targeting <em class="italic">.NET Standard 2.0</em>. We also need to add a reference to the NuGet packages <strong class="keyWord">Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.CSharp</strong> and <strong class="keyWord">Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.Analyzers</strong> in that library.</p>
    <p class="normal">To create a source generator, we need to create a class that has two things:</p>
    <ul>
      <li class="bulletList">It needs to have the <code class="inlineCode">[Generator]</code> attribute. </li>
      <li class="bulletList">It needs to implement <code class="inlineCode">ISourceGenerator</code>.</li>
    </ul>
    <p class="normal">The template code should look something like this:</p>
    <pre class="programlisting code"><code class="hljs-code"><span class="hljs-keyword">using</span> Microsoft.CodeAnalysis;
<span class="hljs-keyword">namespace</span> <span class="hljs-title">SourceGenerator</span>;
[<span class="hljs-meta">Generator</span>]
<span class="hljs-keyword">public</span> <span class="hljs-keyword">class</span> <span class="hljs-title">HelloSourceGenerator</span> : <span class="hljs-title">ISourceGenerator</span>
{
    <span class="hljs-keyword">public</span><span class="hljs-function"> </span><span class="hljs-keyword">void</span><span class="hljs-function"> </span><span class="hljs-title">Execute</span><span class="hljs-function">(</span><span class="hljs-params">GeneratorExecutionContext context</span><span class="hljs-function">)</span>
    {
        <span class="hljs-comment">// Code generation goes here</span>
    }
    <span class="hljs-keyword">public</span><span class="hljs-function"> </span><span class="hljs-keyword">void</span><span class="hljs-function"> </span><span class="hljs-title">Initialize</span><span class="hljs-function">(</span><span class="hljs-params">GeneratorInitializationContext context</span><span class="hljs-function">)</span>
    {
        <span class="hljs-comment">// No initialization required for this one</span>
    }
}
</code></pre>
    <p class="normal">In the <code class="inlineCode">Initialize</code> method, we add any initialization that may be needed; and in the <code class="inlineCode">Execute</code> method, we write the generated code.</p>
    <p class="normal">The generator we are building now is, of course, a silly example, but it also shows some of the power of source generators.</p>
    <p class="normal">In the <code class="inlineCode">Execute</code> method, we add the following code:</p>
    <pre class="programlisting code"><code class="hljs-code">        <span class="hljs-comment">// Build up the source code</span>
        <span class="hljs-built_in">string</span> source = <span class="hljs-string">"""</span>
<span class="hljs-keyword">namespace</span> <span class="hljs-title">BlazorWebAssemblyApp</span>;
<span class="hljs-keyword">public</span> <span class="hljs-keyword">class</span> <span class="hljs-title">GeneratedService</span>
    {
        <span class="hljs-keyword">public</span><span class="hljs-function"> </span><span class="hljs-built_in">string</span><span class="hljs-function"> </span><span class="hljs-title">GetHello</span><span class="hljs-function">()</span>
        {
            <span class="hljs-keyword">return</span> <span class="hljs-string">"Hello from generated code"</span>;
        }
    }
<span class="hljs-string">"""</span>;
        <span class="hljs-comment">// Add the source code to the compilation</span>
        context.AddSource(<span class="hljs-string">$"GeneratedService.g.cs"</span>, source);
</code></pre>
    <p class="normal">It will take<a id="_idIndexMarker607"></a> the code in the source variable and save it as <code class="inlineCode">GeneratedService.g.cs</code>. We also use raw string literals in this file – the feature in .NET7 I have been the most excited about. By adding three double quotes, we don’t need to escape the string; we are free to add more double quotes inside of the string. If you want to escape more than three double quotes, you can add more at the start and end.</p>
    <p class="normal">To add a source generator to our project, we can add the project like this:</p>
    <pre class="programlisting code"><code class="hljs-code">  <span class="hljs-tag">&lt;</span><span class="hljs-name">ItemGroup</span><span class="hljs-tag">&gt;</span>
    <span class="hljs-tag">&lt;</span><span class="hljs-name">ProjectReference</span><span class="hljs-tag"> </span>
<span class="hljs-tag">        </span><span class="hljs-attr">Include</span><span class="hljs-tag">=</span><span class="hljs-string">"..\SourceGenerator\SourceGenerator.csproj"</span><span class="hljs-tag"> </span>
<span class="hljs-tag">        </span><span class="hljs-attr">OutputItemType</span><span class="hljs-tag">=</span><span class="hljs-string">"Analyzer"</span>
<span class="hljs-tag">        </span><span class="hljs-attr">ReferenceOutputAssembly</span><span class="hljs-tag">=</span><span class="hljs-string">"false"</span><span class="hljs-tag">/&gt;</span>
  <span class="hljs-tag">&lt;/</span><span class="hljs-name">ItemGroup</span><span class="hljs-tag">&gt;</span>
</code></pre>
    <p class="normal">When we compile our project, the <code class="inlineCode">GeneratedService</code> will be generated, and we can use the code.</p>
    <p class="normal">Now we can inject the service and use it inside of our components:</p>
    <pre class="programlisting code"><code class="hljs-code">@page "/"
@inject GeneratedService service
<span class="hljs-tag">&lt;</span><span class="hljs-name">h1</span><span class="hljs-tag">&gt;</span>@service.GetHello()<span class="hljs-tag">&lt;/</span><span class="hljs-name">h1</span><span class="hljs-tag">&gt;</span>
</code></pre>
    <p class="normal">Don’t forget to add it to <code class="inlineCode">Program.cs</code> as well:</p>
    <pre class="programlisting code"><code class="hljs-code">builder.Services.AddScoped&lt;GeneratedService&gt;();
</code></pre>
    <p class="normal">The sample above isn’t really how you would use it in a real-world scenario, but I wanted to show that it is not that tricky to get started.</p>
    <p class="normal">Sometimes the<a id="_idIndexMarker608"></a> Visual Studio editor won’t pick up these generated files, and we will see some red squiggles in the code editor. This is because the order of the source generators (there is no guaranteed order) will result in these problems, especially when combining source generators with other classes that are also generated, like <code class="inlineCode">razor</code> files.</p>
    <p class="normal">In the next section, we will look at some of the source generators we can use in our projects.</p>
    <h1 id="_idParaDest-269" class="heading-1">Community projects</h1>
    <p class="normal">Source generators have been<a id="_idIndexMarker609"></a> around since .NET5/6, and there are a lot of community/open-source projects we can use in our projects. Let’s explore them in the following sections.</p>
    <h2 id="_idParaDest-270" class="heading-2">InterfaceGenerator</h2>
    <p class="normal">We have already talked about<a id="_idIndexMarker610"></a> InterfaceGenerator. Generating<a id="_idIndexMarker611"></a> interfaces without having to write the same thing twice will save time and help you avoid problems, especially if you use interfaces only for testing.</p>
    <p class="normal">We can find it<a id="_idIndexMarker612"></a> here:</p>
    <p class="normal"><a href="https://github.com/daver32/InterfaceGenerator"><span class="url">https://github.com/daver32/InterfaceGenerator</span></a></p>
    <h2 id="_idParaDest-271" class="heading-2">Blazorators</h2>
    <p class="normal">David Pine, with <a id="_idIndexMarker613"></a>many contributors, has built <a id="_idIndexMarker614"></a>Blazorators that can take a TypeScript definition file and generate JavaScript interop, ready to be used in any Blazor project. Blazorators take away a lot of the pain points when writing JavaScript interop.</p>
    <p class="normal">Check out his <a id="_idIndexMarker615"></a>project here:</p>
    <p class="normal"><a href="https://github.com/IEvangelist/blazorators"><span class="url">https://github.com/IEvangelist/blazorators</span></a> </p>
    <h2 id="_idParaDest-272" class="heading-2">C# source generators</h2>
    <p class="normal">Amadeusz Sadowski, with many <a id="_idIndexMarker616"></a>contributors, has made an impressive list of where to find more information on source generators and some outstanding<a id="_idIndexMarker617"></a> ones. You can find this fantastic resource <a id="_idIndexMarker618"></a>here:</p>
    <p class="normal"><a href="https://github.com/amis92/csharp-source-generators"><span class="url">https://github.com/amis92/csharp-source-generators</span></a></p>
    <h2 id="_idParaDest-273" class="heading-2">Roslyn SDK samples</h2>
    <p class="normal">Microsoft has added<a id="_idIndexMarker619"></a> some samples to <a id="_idIndexMarker620"></a>their Roslyn SDK repository. It’s a great start to dig a bit deeper into source generators. You can find the samples <a id="_idIndexMarker621"></a>here:</p>
    <p class="normal"><a href="https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn-sdk/tree/main/samples/CSharp/SourceGenerators"><span class="url">https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn-sdk/tree/main/samples/CSharp/SourceGenerators</span></a></p>
    <h2 id="_idParaDest-274" class="heading-2">Microsoft Learn</h2>
    <p class="normal">Microsoft Learn is an <a id="_idIndexMarker622"></a>excellent source for learning anything C# related, and <a id="_idIndexMarker623"></a>source generators are no exception.</p>
    <p class="normal">If you think, just like me, that source generators sound like the best thing since sliced bread, I recommend that you dive<a id="_idIndexMarker624"></a> into the documentation found at Microsoft Learn:</p>
    <p class="normal"><a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/roslyn-sdk/source-generators-overview"><span class="url">https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/roslyn-sdk/source-generators-overview</span></a></p>
    <h1 id="_idParaDest-275" class="heading-1">Summary</h1>
    <p class="normal">In this chapter, we looked at code that writes code to save time and reduce repetitive tasks.</p>
    <p class="normal">Blazor uses source generators to convert the <code class="inlineCode">razor</code> code into C# code, so, indirectly, we are using them all the time.</p>
    <p class="normal">In the next chapter, we will look at Blazor Hybrid by visiting .NET MAUI.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>